---
layout: post
title: "What excites you about AI?"
date: 2017-10-24
---

I just applied to the Insight AI Fellows program. One of the questions they ask in their application is

**What excites you about becoming an AI professional and working in the tech industry?**

but, you had to limit your answer to 4-8 sentences in the application. So, I thought I'd use the space here to expand a little on my answer.

---

I believe AI and automation will have a large effect on the world's economy in my lifetime, and I want to be on the cusp of this wave. I believe this _not_ because I think we're close to creating machines with human-like intelligence, or because we're getting close to the Singularity or any of the scenarios Bostrom or Musk have warned against. Rather, I believe AI and ML represent new ways of writing programs to get computers to do things for us. In this regard, they resemble previous advances in computer science, such as using high level languages to let humans focus more on abstractions and less on memory management, and therefore write more powerful programs.

From what I've seen so far, AI/ML has recently exploded not necessarily because of theoretical ideas, but because of advances in hardware that have let us fully exploit algorithms that were designed long ago (I'm open to being proven wrong on this point: strong opinions, weakly held). I'm heartened by this fact. If the bottleneck in ML is our technological capabilities, and not theory, then the accelerating pace of hardware and data collection means that we'll only be unlocking more utility from the machine learning algorithms we've already developed. And, it means that we're not dependent on theoretical progress for advancements in ML. This is important because theory advances in fits and starts, and we don't want to let a fallow period to choke off investment.

Taken together, the above paragraphs suggest that 1) ML will drastically expand the scope of what we can accomplish with computers and that 2) progress in ML will continue happen for quite some time. If you believe this premise, it means that there's no better time to get into ML than now.
