### Why blog?

Diving into things you like, or things you want to understand better,
so that you can potentially work with them, is fun. Putting a piece of
writing together gives you a sense of accomplishment, as you shift the
(im)balance between producing and consuming towards a healthier
direction. It's also practical--it shows people you can think, and
that you put effort into doing things right (almost _no one_ gets over
the activation energy barrier of setting up a blog, or even outlining
one post).

But these are all reasons that your third grade teacher would give
you. Boring, naive, and characteristic of someone who's well-meaning
but is not a practitioner themself. Like a fat doctor telling you to
exercise.

The real reason you should blog, or rather, _write_, is that it clears
up misunderstandings you didn't even know you had.

Illustrate with this analogy: it's like rolling out your tissues
before you work out (MobilityWod first brought this to the attention
of the public). You apply localized pressure to your muscles (by 'foam
rolling' or using lacrosse balls usually) to get rid of 'knots' or
'adhesions', usually in preparation for a workout where those muscles
will be used. You use broad strokes to cover the entire muscle, since
you don't know exactly where problems might lie.

Doing this gives you more mobility (ie, flexibility + strength) when
you need to use those muscles. It also dramatically lessens your
chance of injury when you're using those muscles in a high stress
situation like a one rep max or sparring. The corresponding situation
for your mind is when you need to figure something difficult
out--maybe solve a problem for an interview, put out a fire at work,
or solve a problem at the frontier of knowledge. When you're under
pressure, the gaps in your knowledge will become very clear, like
fractures in a brick under stress. You need a completely solid
foundation, especially if you want to solve really hard problems.
Under stress or not, if you don't fully understand the fundamentals,
you'll never discover new things, because on some level you've merely
memorized things. Discovering new things needs first principles
thinking, which is the opposite of memorization.

Being disciplined about rolling out on a regular basis is also what
gives you longevity as a physically active person. Otherwise, you
eventually get injured, then become inactive, sloppy, and lazy, and
also prone to more injuries. This is a vicious cycle that ensures most
people eventually become out of shape. Similarly: maintaining or
accelerating the pace at which you're learning, synthesizing ideas,
and taking advantage of the compounding interest of knowledge is what
ensures that you stay relevant, at the edge.

Rolling out your tissues also keeps your posture from devolving. When
tissues get short, from lack of use/age (really the same thing), you
slowly start to look goofy. This usually takes the form of hunched
shoulders, excessive kyphosis/lordosis, duck feet, etc. The important
point is that not only do you not look human any more, but you're less
prepared to use your body now in taxing situations. And analogously,
if you stop learning, stop processing new things quickly like you do
when you're young, your mental muscles atrophy, opinions ossify, and
even your attitude itself towards learning new things decays (eg, Why
bother doing it at all? My life is fine, using the knowledge I have
right now).

In short, it's about being ready to perform in stressful situations
that could arise at any time. It's about being ready. It's about being
antifragile.
